What is cloud computing?
In the simple terms,cloud computing is technology where resources is provided as a service through internet to a user.

what are the cloud computing provider we had?
Amazon Web Services (AWS) (2006) started offering services.
Microsoft Azure.
Google Cloud.
Alibaba Cloud.
IBM Cloud.
Oracle.

Aws:
The full form of AWS is Amazon Web Services. It is a platform that offers flexible, reliable, scalable, easy-to-use and, cost-effective cloud computing services.

*In 2006, Amazon Web Services (AWS) began offering IT infrastructure services.

advantages of aws:
User-friendly (UI)
Flexible (ANYWHERE)
Secure 
Cost-effective (PAY AS YOU USE)
Reliable 
Scalable and Elastic 
Highly Performance.

Disadvantages of AWS
Limitations
Lack of Experts
Price Variations(region)
General Issues

Companies using AWS?
1) Netflix, 2)Adobe 3)pinterest 4) spotify 5) facebook 6) linkdin 7) NASA

how many cloud computing modules:
1.deployment module --->public cloud,private cloud, hybrid cloud.
2.service module.----> IAAS,PAAS,SAAS.

EC2: EC2 is a cloud platform provided by Amazon that offers secure, and resizable compute capacity.

BENFITS OF EC2:
1.Elastic instance scalable.(any shape).
2.Flexible(anywhere).
3.Completly Controlled.
4.Reliable (crushes hdd)
5.Secure   
6.Inexpensive (pay-as-you-use)
7.easy to start. 

Setup process:
1.choose AMI(amazon Machine Image).
2.Choose Instance Type
3.Configure Instance.
4.Add storage.
5.Add tags.
6.Configure Security Group
7.Lanch.

IAM: IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT.
ex:developer,dbadmin,networking
modules:users,policies,Groups,Roles.
users:the user that we create in IAM
policies:We create policies to assign permission to a user, group, role or resource.
Groups — The users created can also be divided into groups
Roles — An IAM role is an IAM entity that defines a set of permissions for making AWS service requests. 

Features of IAM:
1.Enhanced security.ex:- control over cyberattack.
2.Complete Control :- root has every access.
3.Reduced Cost:- specified services are used,less bill.
4.Improved User exp:-- less UI,more clear.

types of storage in AWS:
1.S3
2.EBS(Elastic Block Store)
3.EFS(Elastic File System)
4.S3 GLACIER.
5.STOAGE GATEWAY
6.SNOWBALL EDGE.

EBS(Elastic Block Store):
* Like how harddisk is required for computers,similarly to store data for some the aws services we Use this Block store.
* As a service EBS , we cann't use it directly, until it is associated to another service.
* Services that uses EBS are 1.Ec2 2.ECS 3.RDS 4.Redis.
* Types of storage that we have in AWS 1. Block level 2. File Storage 3.Object storage.
* We can use EBs, EFS/Fsx ,s3 for EC2 machine,But when there is like an os type of things we use only EBS.we cann't lanch os with s3 or efs.
* ONe EC2 machine can connect upto 16 Ebs. also for 16 ec2 machines we can use one EBS also.But there is a limitation.by default in aws to establish commution between ec2 and Ebs while lanching they use hypervisors they are  1. Xen HYperVisor 2. Nitro Hypervisor (advanced,supprts extra ebs) ...
*By default Aws will creates the same copy of Ebs into 2 more different copies in different different availablilty zones for additional security purpose.
* Types of EBS 1.SSD 2.HDD 3.PREVIOUS GENERATION.
i).SSD: ssd are very fast in processing iops processing per second. whereas
ii).HDD: hdd are slow compared to ssd and It's used when there is big data and lessly used which is low throughput speed.and previous gen are very rare to use.
* Again SSD are classified into 2 catageories.
1.GENERAL PURPOSE --> 1.GP2  2.GP3(FAST)
2.PROVISIONED PURPOSE --->1. iO1. 2. io2. 3. io express(FAST). #FASTER than preivous 
* Again HDD are classified into 2 catageories:
1.ST1(FAST) 2.SD1


S3:Amazon S3 or Amazon Simple Storage Service is a service offered by Amazon Web Services that provides object storage through a web service interface.

*It's the second service developed in aws.
*max storage 5TB. free trail 5gb.
*Static website hosting.
*folders called as Bucket.
*files are called as objects.


benfits:
1.storage scalability.
2.Virus Protection.
3.Availability (3 copies).(security)
4.Storing at Cloud.(flexibility)
5.SSD storage type.
6.pay as you use.
7.Versioning.












VPC:Virtual Privare Network.
LAN:Local Area Network
MAN:Metro Area Network
WAN:Wide Area Network.

subnet:A subnet, or subnetwork, is a network inside a network.





RDS:Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) makes database configuration, management, and scaling easy in the cloud. Automate tedious tasks such as hardware provisioning, database arrangement, patching.



EBS:Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) is a high-performance block storage solution used within Amazon EC2 for throughput and transaction workloads of any size, at any time. It handles a diverse range of workloads, such as relational and non-relational databases, and enterprise applications.

AMAZON S3 GLACIER: Amazon S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and extremely low-cost Amazon S3 storage class for data archiving and long-term backup.

LAMBDA:

API GATEWAY:

elb:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaHes97pnDg&ab_channel=Intellipaat